docs/t-sql/functions/servername-transact-sql.md, before:

---
title: "@@SERVERNAME (Transact-SQL) | Microsoft Docs"
ms.custom: ""
ms.date: "09/17/2017"
ms.prod: sql
ms.prod_service: "database-engine, sql-database"
ms.reviewer: ""
ms.suite: "sql"
ms.technology: t-sql
ms.tgt_pltfrm: ""
ms.topic: "language-reference"
f1_keywords: 
  - "@@SERVERNAME"
  - "@@SERVERNAME_TSQL"
dev_langs: 
  - "TSQL"
helpviewer_keywords: 
  - "@@SERVERNAME function"
  - "local servers [SQL Server]"
ms.assetid: b0ef33fb-954a-4294-b05b-a87c14ce25a3
caps.latest.revision: 34
author: MashaMSFT
ms.author: mathoma
manager: craigg
---
# &#x40;&#x40;SERVERNAME (Transact-SQL)
[!INCLUDE[tsql-appliesto-ss2008-asdb-xxxx-xxx-md](../../includes/tsql-appliesto-ss2008-asdb-xxxx-xxx-md.md)]

  Returns the name of the local server that is running [!INCLUDE[ssNoVersion](../../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)].  

[!INCLUDE[ssMIlimitation](../../includes/sql-db-mi-limitation.md)]

 ![Article link icon](../../database-engine/configure-windows/media/topic-link.gif "Topic link icon") [Transact-SQL Syntax Conventions](../../t-sql/language-elements/transact-sql-syntax-conventions-transact-sql.md)  
  
## Syntax  
  
```  
  
@@SERVERNAME  
```  
  
## Return Types  
 **nvarchar**  
  
## Remarks  
 [!INCLUDE[ssNoVersion](../../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] Setup sets the server name to the computer name during installation. To change the name of the server, use **sp_addserver**, and then restart [!INCLUDE[ssNoVersion](../../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)].  
  
 With multiple instances of [!INCLUDE[ssNoVersion](../../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] installed, @@SERVERNAME returns the following local server name information if the local server name has not been changed since set up.  
  
|Instance|Server information|  
|--------------|------------------------|  
|Default instance|'*servername*'|  
|Named instance|'*servername*\\*instancename*'|  
|fail over clustered instance - default instance|'*virtualservername*'|  
|fail over clustered instance - named instance|'*virtualservername*\\*instancename*'|  
  
 Although the @@SERVERNAME function and the SERVERNAME property of SERVERPROPERTY function may return strings with similar formats, the information can be different. The SERVERNAME property automatically reports changes in the network name of the computer.  
  
 In contrast, @@SERVERNAME does not report such changes. @@SERVERNAME reports changes made to the local server name using the **sp_addserver** or **sp_dropserver** stored procedure.  
  
## Examples  
 The following example shows using `@@SERVERNAME`.  
  
```  
SELECT @@SERVERNAME AS 'Server Name'  
```  
  
 Here is a sample result set.  
  
```  
Server Name  
---------------------------------  
ACCTG  
  
```  
  
## See Also  
 [Configuration Functions &#40;Transact-SQL&#41;](../../t-sql/functions/configuration-functions-transact-sql.md)   
 [SERVERPROPERTY &#40;Transact-SQL&#41;](../../t-sql/functions/serverproperty-transact-sql.md)   
 [sp_addserver &#40;Transact-SQL&#41;](../../relational-databases/system-stored-procedures/sp-addserver-transact-sql.md)

Commit message:

Fixed cluster-related info
It was never fail over clustered instance, and virtual server name is no longer a thing; hasn't been for over 10 years

docs/t-sql/functions/servername-transact-sql.md, after:

---
title: "@@SERVERNAME (Transact-SQL) | Microsoft Docs"
ms.custom: ""
ms.date: "09/17/2017"
ms.prod: sql
ms.prod_service: "database-engine, sql-database"
ms.reviewer: ""
ms.suite: "sql"
ms.technology: t-sql
ms.tgt_pltfrm: ""
ms.topic: "language-reference"
f1_keywords: 
  - "@@SERVERNAME"
  - "@@SERVERNAME_TSQL"
dev_langs: 
  - "TSQL"
helpviewer_keywords: 
  - "@@SERVERNAME function"
  - "local servers [SQL Server]"
ms.assetid: b0ef33fb-954a-4294-b05b-a87c14ce25a3
caps.latest.revision: 34
author: MashaMSFT
ms.author: mathoma
manager: craigg
---
# &#x40;&#x40;SERVERNAME (Transact-SQL)
[!INCLUDE[tsql-appliesto-ss2008-asdb-xxxx-xxx-md](../../includes/tsql-appliesto-ss2008-asdb-xxxx-xxx-md.md)]

  Returns the name of the local server that is running [!INCLUDE[ssNoVersion](../../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)].  

[!INCLUDE[ssMIlimitation](../../includes/sql-db-mi-limitation.md)]

 ![Article link icon](../../database-engine/configure-windows/media/topic-link.gif "Topic link icon") [Transact-SQL Syntax Conventions](../../t-sql/language-elements/transact-sql-syntax-conventions-transact-sql.md)  
  
## Syntax  
  
```  
  
@@SERVERNAME  
```  
  
## Return Types  
 **nvarchar**  
  
## Remarks  
 [!INCLUDE[ssNoVersion](../../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] Setup sets the server name to the computer name during installation. To change the name of the server, use **sp_addserver**, and then restart [!INCLUDE[ssNoVersion](../../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)].  
  
 With multiple instances of [!INCLUDE[ssNoVersion](../../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] installed, @@SERVERNAME returns the following local server name information if the local server name has not been changed since set up.  
  
|Instance|Server information|  
|--------------|------------------------|  
|Default instance|'*servername*'|  
|Named instance|'*servername*\\*instancename*'|  
|failover cluster instance - default instance|'*network_name_resource_for_fci_in_wsfc*'|  
|failoler cluster instance - named instance|'*network_name_resource_for_fci_in_wsfc*\\*instancename*'|  
  
 Although the @@SERVERNAME function and the SERVERNAME property of SERVERPROPERTY function may return strings with similar formats, the information can be different. The SERVERNAME property automatically reports changes in the network name of the computer.  
  
 In contrast, @@SERVERNAME does not report such changes. @@SERVERNAME reports changes made to the local server name using the **sp_addserver** or **sp_dropserver** stored procedure.  
  
## Examples  
 The following example shows using `@@SERVERNAME`.  
  
```  
SELECT @@SERVERNAME AS 'Server Name'  
```  
  
 Here is a sample result set.  
  
```  
Server Name  
---------------------------------  
ACCTG  
  
```  
  
## See Also  
 [Configuration Functions &#40;Transact-SQL&#41;](../../t-sql/functions/configuration-functions-transact-sql.md)   
 [SERVERPROPERTY &#40;Transact-SQL&#41;](../../t-sql/functions/serverproperty-transact-sql.md)   
 [sp_addserver &#40;Transact-SQL&#41;](../../relational-databases/system-stored-procedures/sp-addserver-transact-sql.md)
